Know it's time that we call our controllers call our endpoints programmatically for doing that and this
with you we're going to discover the rest template from spring risk template is the cleanest and easiest
way to call and points within spring.
All you have to do to call an endpoint call our controller within an application programmatically.
You have to be creating a rest template bean and then all the wiring in it so that you can use within
your application so to show you how you can make requests with red template.
I'm going to be making use of two services two applications and one of those applications is this one
the rest API application and the other one is the one that we previously developed and that is the repository
application.
So from that repository application I'm going to be calling the rest API application in the endpoints
that we developed with those endpoints.
I'm expecting to get that data from our rest API application from the repository application.
So to start I'm going to open up our repository application I'll go to response and I'll open the repository
application and I'm going to open it in a window.
Here we go and I'll switch to full screen mode so that we can switch back and forth easily.
So in this application we're going to be making use self-direct template so to do that.
I'll start off with commenting out these repository methods that we use to show how we can interact
with our repository.
So I'll use the block commenting here and I'll comment out the rest until the end.
Here we go.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to be creating a risk template instance variable with that
variable.
We're going to be creating a new rest template.
And with that template we're going to be all the wiring it and then simply calling our endpoint.
So I'll start by the rest template instance variable algo top and I'll say private rest template
and rest template.
So I have to be creating a bean for the rest template because in the latest version of spring spring
developers decided to leave out the creation of a template to the user to the developer in previous
versions of a template.
You could simply use the Saturne injection forest template so you don't have to be writing anything.
But with this way we're also not going to write any boilerplate code.
It's going to be fairly easy.
So to create arest template I'm going to be creating a bin for it.
So to do that I'll go down right here and I'm going to say public rest template and rest template again.
In the method body I'm going to be simply creating a new rest template and returning it.
So I'll say return numerous template.
All right.
Simple as that.
So to use it within our application I'm going to be annotating this with being annotation.
So to do that I'm going to a top and saying that this is a bean.
But of course I'm going to be on a wire in this with our instance wearable so that it can be found within
the components scan.
So I'll go top and I'll say auto wired.
All right we have our press template ready to make requests.
So to make requests I'm going to write below the same method all our repository and there I'm going
to create a request to make that request.
Let's switch back to our rest API application and see what we can request in arist API application after
the rooftop of our application we're starting off with API slash products just as we see here.
And after that we have the get Mathare with ID we can start off with this rest API method the get method
of the API application.
But before we start we should be considering a couple of things.
Our method with the Get request path is actually returning a type of product and is accepting the ID
as the parameter as we have here as the path variable.
So we should be taking a product back from the rest temporal call and we should also be providing an
ID to the request.
So let's switch back to our repository application and build our request so I'll go down here.
And I'm expecting a product from the requestor with the rest template.
So I'll say product
from rest template is going to be rest template got get for entity as you can see and what the rest
template.
Take out the alternative methods that we can use to make requests.
The arrest template has weariest ways that you can use to make requests.
You can set the properties of rest template with these methods you can use delete request.
You can make HTP delete requests.
You can simply call the exchange method and with there you can provide the type of the H.T. copy method
that you're going to use and the type of the response of course.
And right below the exchange method we can make get for entity requests and with those requests we can
accept an entity in response and we're actually saying that we're expecting an entity.
And after that we have now had four header's the ETP had requests.
And of course we have HTP options implemented here and other than that we have postmaster's for GTP.
And if we go down we have of course HTP puf method.
And as you can see resk template has various methods that we can use to make requests.
So to make our requests we're going to be making a get request.
So let's start by typing get get for object.
And of course we're expecting an object and in our case our End Point is simply faking an ID as the
path variable and returning a product in response.
So we can use the last method in our template.
So I'll hit enter and I'm going to be providing to you Earl to make the request and you earlier is going
to be the actual full path of the application that is up and running.
So I'll say HTP localhost
and ADHD slash API slash products.
And of course I'm going to be providing the idea that I'm going to use which is the idea that we're
going to take from the H2 database the actual data.
So I'll leave out this part for now and I'll go back to it in a moment.
And in the next part we're going to be taking the type of the response and that type of the response
is going to be product.
Let's say we're expecting a product class type of object in response area.
So we're almost ready to make the request template.
But before we do let's run our application with the rest API and get the idea from it.
And also we can make the actual restaurant type request.
So I'll switch back to the rest API application and I'm going to run the application
or application is almost up and here we go our application is up and running.
Let's go to H-2 counsel and see what ids we have in the database.
So I'll go to Firefox for that and I'll say localhost ADHD slash H-2
and I'm going to connect to my database here we go let's check out the product table in the product
table.
We have just a Bayda that we can make requests with.
So let's copy that ID and switch back to our repository application in our repository application.
I'm simply going to put you ID here so that we can make the request and I'll say I'm going to be providing
this ID.
All right.
So our request is almost ready but to make both applications up or running we have to tweak the application
properties a little.
So let's go to our application properties files and switch the product tables.
Product databases with something else.
I'm going to name the ASP products the so our application won't crash when it starts up because if we
keep the same naming with our tables entity manager for Hibernate is simply going to crash because it
cannot create table again because we already have that table with the rest API application which is
up.
So I'm going to name this as products the B.
And of course I'm going to change the path as to slash cons..
All right.
Let's say this.
And we should also change the part of our application as you're well aware by now spring is using the
port ADHD by default and we can simply all write this with the server down port property.
So I'll go down here and I'm going to say server port as 80 81.
All right let's run our repository application and make our request.
All right.
But of course before we do let's print out the resolve in the console so I'll go back to my code and
I'm simply going to log out the statement log that info product
received with rest template and I'm going to print out the object of the product product from rest template
and string All right ready to run our application.
So I'll hit on our application and see what's going to happen.
Our application is turning up
and here we go.
And in the console walk before the application start up you should notice that arest template request
is successful and it could turn down the product that we expected which is with the idea that we provided
in the request and with the name as simple product and type as custom categories special description
as this is a test or description and price is not because we didn't set any price with our entity to
verify that.
Let's switch back to our H2 and check out the namings in our database.
As you remember with the console log we had special response as the category and description was this
is a test or description.
So our recent book requests is successful as you can see making requests with template is fairly simple.
You can use the get for object method get for entity and you can use all the basic functionalities of
GTP request.
You can either use put post delete had and any other options with a TTP.
So to take a look at a different way of making requests programmatically Olive is seeing in the next
video where we talk about and making a request with fayned client from Netflix.